<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="security">
    <title>Security</title>
    <shortdesc>Plan and implement specific security measures to protect the application and the data it manages,especially when you deploy IBM StoredIQ into sensitive environments.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>security<index-see>deployment</index-see></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>IBM StoredIQ keeps your data secure through encryption, security hardening, and auditing.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)</title>
            <p>FIPS is a standard recommended by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and theUS Federal Government. It ensures certain security standards are met for software or hardwarecomponents deployed at US government sites. Enabling FIPS ensures that the SSL/TLS engine that iscompliant with the US Government recommendation is used. IBM StoredIQ supports FIPS Level 1.</p>
            <p>Secure gateway communication can be enabled without FIPS. If FIPS is enabled, IBM StoredIQ uses FIPScompliant versions of OpenSSL.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Secure communication and encryption of data in motion</title>
            <p>In a production environment, you should configure or install certificates on the AppStack to enable HTTPScommunication and to enable encryption of data in motion between the browser and the AppStack. Youcan to this during installation and initial configuration or at any time afterward. For details, see theinstructions for configuring certificates</p>
            <p>The gateway handles the communication between the data servers and the application stack. By default,the communication between the gateway, any data servers, and the AppStack is in plain text and is notencrypted. If your enterprise security policy mandates encryption of data in motion, enable securegateway communication. In this case, secure gateway communication must be configured on all three IBM StoredIQ components. You can enable secure gateway communication during installation and initial configuration or at any time afterward. For details, see “Managing the status of secure gatewaycommunication” on page 54.</p>
            <p>IBM StoredIQ then uses stunnel to ensure secure communication between the components. If yourenvironment includes data servers of the type DataServer - Distributed, stunnel can also be used toencrypt the communication between the nodes within the Elasticsearch cluster but not for encrypting thecommunication between the data server and the Elasticsearch cluster.</p>
            <p>To secure the communication between the data server and the Elasticsearch cluster and thecommunication within the Elasticsearch cluster likewise, you can enable Search Guard. For moreinformation, see “Securing Elasticsearch cluster communication with Search Guard” on page 51. If youdon't want to do that but still want to restrict client access to port 9200 on the Elasticsearch nodes, you can set up the firewall accordingly. For more information, see “Restricting access to port 9200 on Elasticsearch nodes” on page 52.</p>
            <p>
                If FIPS is not enabled, the following cipher suites and encryption algorithm are used for data at rest:
                <sl>
                    <sli>TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256</sli>
                    <sli>TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256</sli>
                </sl>
            </p>
            <p>You can configure these cipher suites in the configurationfiles listed in the list of key and certificatefiles.However, if you run the utilities for enabling stunnel, you might need to make the respective configurationchanges again.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Encryption of data at rest</title>
            <p>Starting with IBM StoredIQ version 7.6.0.15, the disk volume on which the Elasticsearch indexes arestored is encrypted by default. IBM StoredIQ uses Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS) for disk encryption. Fordetails about key management, see “Key and certificate management” on page 41.</p>
            <p>Optionally, you can encrypt the application data on the IBM StoredIQ application stack. For moreinformation, see “Enabling encryption of IBM StoredIQ AppStack application data” on page 50.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Network isolation</title>
            <p>If full-text harvesting and Step-up Analytics actions (cartridges) are applied, Elasticsearch indexes cancontain potentially sensitive content. Therefore, you should deploy the Elasticsearch nodes in an isolatedlocation on the network (for example, as an enclave or behind a firewall) that is properly securedaccording to the sensitivity of the data being harvested. Only the IBM StoredIQ application stack and dataservers should be allowed to communicate with the Elasticsearch nodes.</p>
            <p>Also, any data servers and the gateway should be deployed in an isolated network location to allow forcommunication with authorized clients only.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Access control</title>
            <p>The following administrative accounts are required. The builder and siqadmin accounts are IBMStoredIQ-specific accounts. For more information about these accounts, see <xref href="#security">“Default user accounts”</xref> onpage 17.</p>
            <dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>root</codeph> and <codeph>builder</codeph> accounts on the Elasticsearch cluster nodes</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>Remote login for root can be disabled. However, local root login is required, either log in as root oruse the <b>su</b> command to obtain root permissions temporarily.</p>
                        <p>You set the passwords for the <codeph>root</codeph> and <codeph>builder</codeph> accounts during the configuration process when you start the <codeph>VM</codeph> for the first time. You can change these passwords anytime.</p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt><codeph>siqadmin</codeph> account on the AppStack</dt>
                    <dd>
                        <p>Administration of the <codeph>AppStack</codeph> usually does not require direct root access. For day-to-day administration, the <codeph>siqadmin</codeph> account can be used.</p>
                        <p>You set the password for the <codeph>siqadmin</codeph> account during the configuration process when you start the <codeph>VM</codeph> for the first time. You can change this password anytime.</p>
                    </dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl>
        </section>
        <section id="def_user_accounts">
            <title>Default user accounts</title>
            <p>IBM StoredIQ comes with a set of default user accounts.</p>
            <p>For security reasons, change the passwords for these default accounts after the installation is completeso that they are unique and different from the default values. The new password must be 8 to 64characters long and must contain characters from at least three of these categories:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>Uppercase letters: A - Z</li>
                <li>Lowercase letters: a - z</li>
                <li>Digits: 0 - 9</li>
                <li>Punctuation marks or special characters: . : = * ˆ / $ # _ + @ &amp; % -</li>
            </ul>
            <table>
                <tgroup cols="3" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Account</entry>
                            <entry>Default password</entry>
                            <entry>Description</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>admin</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>admin</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>
                                <p>Administrative account for accessingIBM StoredIQ Data Server. Use thisaccount for the initial setup of the dataserver and to create furtheradministrative accounts for routineadministration.</p>
                                <p>Change the password in IBM StoredIQData Server under <b>Administration > Configuration > Manage users.</b></p>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>audituser</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>Passw0rd!</codeph></entry>
                            <entry></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>builder</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>None. Password is set during initialconfiguration.</entry>
                            <entry>
                                <p>Account for setting up and configuring the Elasticsearch cluster.</p>
                                <p>You can change the password by using the Linux <b>passwd</b> command.</p>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>reportuser</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>St0red1q</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>
                                <p>Account for accessing the reportdatabase on the AppStack.</p>
                                <p>Change the password by running the <b>change_audituser_password</b> script as <codeph>siqadmin</codeph> user on the AppStack.</p>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>siqadmin</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>Passw0rd!</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>
                                <p>Administrative account for managing the AppStack server. For more information,see the administration guide.</p>
                                <p>With new installations, you are prompted for a new password during the initial configuration of the AppStack. Inupdated deployments, change thepassword by using the Linux <b>passwd</b> command.</p>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><codeph>superadmin</codeph></entry>
                            <entry><codeph>admin</codeph></entry>
                            <entry>
                                <p>Administrative account for accessingIBM StoredIQ Administrator and IBMStoredIQ Data Server. Use this accountfor the initial setup of IBM StoredIQ andto create further administrativeaccounts for routine administration sothat their actions can be audited.</p>
                                <p>Change the password in IBM StoredIQAdministrator: go to <b>Users</b> and edit thesuperadmin account.</p>
                                <p>The <codeph>superadmin</codeph> account has access toall IBM StoredIQ applications on theapplication stack. To switchapplications, click the triangle arrowicon and select the application that youwant to access from the list of theavailable applications.</p>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
