<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="deploy_on_hyperv" product="hyper-v">
    <title>Deploying IBM StoredIQ on Microsoft Hyper-V</title>
    <shortdesc>As an alternative to installing on an ESX server, the IBM StoredIQ gateway, data server, and applicationstack can be installed on Microsoft Hyper-V. This option is not supported for the Elasticsearch virtualappliance.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>install<indexterm>Hyper-v</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Installing IBM StoredIQ on Microsoft Hyper-V requires the use of third-party software. For the proceduredescribed here, the following software prerequisites must be met:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>Microsoft Hyper-V Manager must be installed on a Windows system.</li>
                <li>7-zip for Windows or tar for the Linux operating system must be available to extract contents of theOVA.</li>
                <li>7-zip for Windows or gunzip for the Linux operating system must be installed to decompress thevmdk.gzfile.</li>
                <li>Microsoft Virtual Machine Converter 3.0 (Windows) or qemu-img (Linux) or must be installed to convertthe files from VMWare .vmdkfiles to Hyper-V .vhdxfiles.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>Microsoft Hyper-V does not support OVAs and OVFs. The virtual machine needs to be built manually.</p>
            <p>Consider the following instructions a sample procedure. The instructions might differ depending on theversion of the third-party software.</p>
            <p>Complete these steps for the gateway, the data server, and the AppStack:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Extract the vmdkfile from the OVA.</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Download the OVA.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Extract the contents of the OVA by using 7-zip for Windows or tar for the Linux operating system.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Decompress the vmdk.gz archive by using 7-zip for Windows or gunzip for Linux.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Delete everything except the vmdkfile when the OVA extraction is complete.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Convert the VMWare .vmdk file to a Microsoft Hyper-V .vhdx file.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>For instructions about converting .vmdk files to .vhdx files, see the following links:</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-R2-and-2012/dn874008(v=ws.11)?redirectedfrom=MSDN" scope="external" format="html"></xref>Use Microsoft Virtual Machine Converter</li>
                        <li><xref href="https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/5/html/virtualization/sect-virtualization-tips_and_tricks-using_qemu_img" scope="external" format="html" ></xref>Using qemu-img</li>
                    </ul>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Build a virtual machine.</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select New Virtual Machine > Next from Hyper-V Manager.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Enter the name of the virtual machine in the Specify Name and Location window and click Next.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Generation of the machine in the Specify Generation window.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Enter the startup memory in the Assign Memory window.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select the correct network in the Configure Network window and click Next.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Use an existing virtual hard disk in the Connect Virtual Hard Disk window. Search the disklocation, select one of the primary disks, and then click Next.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Click Finish.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Repeat these previous steps for all IBM StoredIQ disks.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Optional: Add disks.</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select a virtual machine in Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select the settings for the virtual machine under Actions.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select the IDE controller and highlight Hard Drive in the Settings window.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Hard Drive and virtual hard disk and click New.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Click Next in the New Virtual Hard Disk wizard.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select VHDX in Choose Disk Format and then click Next.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Dynamically expanding in Choose Disk Type and then click Next.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Enter a name for the disk in the Specify Name and Location window and the click Next.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Create a new blank virtual hard disk and enter a size in the Configure Disk window andthen click Finish.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Repeat this procedure for all additional disks.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq>Complete the installation process by following the instructions in “Configuring IBM StoredIQ” on page22.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
