<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE glossgroup PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Glossary Group//EN" "glossgroup.dtd">
<glossgroup id="glossary">
    <title>Glossary</title>
    <glossentry id="app_stack">
        <glossterm>Application stack</glossterm>
        <glossdef>The application stack provides the user interface for the IBM StoredIQ Administrator, IBMStoredIQ Data Workbench, IBM StoredIQ Insights, and the IBM StoredIQ Policy Managerproducts.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="auto">
        <glossterm>Auto-classification</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Automated document categorization, what IBM StoredIQ refers to asautoclassification models, integrates the IBM® Content Classification's classification model intothe IBM StoredIQ infoset-generation process.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="cartridges">
        <glossterm>Cartridges</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Cartridges are compressed files that contain analysis logic. When you add a cartridge toIBM StoredIQ AppStack, it can detect new data in documents during indexing and make these newinsights searchable.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="connector">
        <glossterm>Connector API SDK</glossterm>
        <glossdef>A connector is a software component of IBM StoredIQ that is used to connectto a data source such as a network file system and access its data.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="data_Server">
        <glossterm>Data Servers</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Data servers obtain data from supported data sources and indexes it.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="classic">
        <glossterm>DataServer - Classic</glossterm>
        <glossdef>DataServer - Classic refers to the regular data servers. It uses either thecurrent PostgreSQL or Lucene index as an index.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="dist">
        <glossterm>DataServer - Distributed</glossterm>
        <glossdef>The distributed data server uses an Elasticsearch cluster instead ofan embedded Postgres database.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="gateway">
        <glossterm>Gateway</glossterm>
        <glossdef>The gateway communicates between the data servers and the application stack.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="insights">
        <glossterm>IBM StoredIQ Insights</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Provides dynamic and interactive filtering for your data with easy access to allmetadata and instant plain-text preview of document content for full-text indexed volumes.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
</glossgroup>
